            National Archives and Records Administration
                                                                         8601 Adelphi Road
                                                         College Park, Maryland 20740-6001




Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

Record Group 59: General Records of the Department of State
Central Foreign Policy File, 1973 – 1979

I. Questions about the Department of State Central Foreign Policy File (CFPF)

      1. What is the Central Foreign Policy File (CFPF)?
      2. In what formats are the CFPF records?
      3. What are TAGS?
      4. Are all the CFPF records preserved?
      5. What records are designated as permanent?
      6. What records are designated as temporary?
      7. Which records have been accessioned by the National Archives?
      8. How can I locate documents in the P-Reel printout files?
      9. How can I determine if a full electronic telegram or P-Reel citation is being
            withheld from viewing?
      10. Are all 1973-1979 State Telegrams in the AAD?
      11. Can any of the lost telegram texts be recovered?
      12. How do I cite records from the Central Foreign Policy Files, beginning with
            records for 1973?
      13. Where can I get more information about the Central Foreign Policy File?

II. Questions about using the Access to Archival Databases (AAD) resource to access
    the digital records of the Department of State Central Foreign Policy File

      1. What kinds of searches can be conducted on the digital records?
      2. How do I search for records on the basis of dates?
      3. How can I view the full message text of the records I find?
      4. Can I download my search results?
      5. Does AAD search for the meanings of coded values in the CFPF?
      6. Can I view sample values for fields in these electronic files?
      7. May I obtain copies of the electronic files available via AAD?

III. Questions about obtaining records from the Department of State Central Foreign
     Policy File that are not accessible through AAD

      1. What records are not accessible through AAD?
      2. How do I get access to the telegrams or P-Reel index entries referenced by
            withdrawal cards?
      3. How do I get access to paper documents referenced by the P-Reel indexes?




                                            1
I. Questions about the Department of State Central Foreign Policy File

1. What is the Central Foreign Policy File (CFPF)?

The Central Foreign Policy File (CFPF) is the Department of State's primary record
keeping system. It contains incoming and outgoing telegrams, airgrams, instructions,
reports, intra- and inter-departmental memorandums, correspondence, diplomatic
notes, and other documents relating to the foreign relations of the United States and
the management and administration of the Department. Between 1973 and 1975, the
Department made radical changes to the CFPF. In an attempt to utilize computer and
microfilm technology for the efficient creation, dissemination, storage, and retrieval of
records, the Department phased out its paper-based central file holdings and created a
new central recordkeeping system, then called the Automated Data System (ADS).

ADS consisted of an electronic index, computer-output microfilm of many incoming
and outgoing telegrams, manually created microfilm of hard copy documents, and a
small volume of paper files of oversize documents. The Department indexed the
records in a database that initially constituted the main "automated" portion of the
recordkeeping system. For the manually created microfilm, staff keyed data elements
such as date, subjects, and document number into the database along with reel and
frame numbers to create and index of the microfilmed documents. The same types of
information were captured automatically and manually verified for electronic telegrams
and the computer-output microfilm. To locate records, users queried the system to
create a virtual file consisting of document citations and then retrieved relevant
documents. During the 1990s, data from the database on all records was merged with
the preserved electronic telegrams into the State Archiving System (SAS), and it is that
data that is transferred to the National Archives.

The preservation of telegrams in the new system began in July 1973. While initially
computer-output microfilm served as the preservation medium for the telegrams,
many were saved in electronic form as well. Within a few years, the electronic versions
of the telegrams became part of the formal recordkeeping system. A computer output
microfilm copy of many of the telegrams is found on the D-Reel ("D" for digital)
microfilm. The electronic telegrams largely duplicate those on the microfilm. Some
telegrams were not preserved on either the D-Reel microfilm or electronically and are
found on the P-Reel microfilm described below. NODIS (No Distribution) telegrams
required special handling. While many were preserved electronically as part of the
main telegram file, beginning in 1975, they also were preserved on the N-Reel ("N" for
NODIS) microfilm.

In January 1974, the Department began microfilming paper documents (airgrams,
memorandums of various types, reports, correspondence, diplomatic notes, aides
memoire, and in some cases telegrams, etc.) and destroying the original documents.
This microfilm is referred to as the P-Reel ("P" for paper) microfilm. Documents on the
film are arranged in the order in which they were received and filmed by the records
management office, not by subject or point of origin. (Generally, paper-based
documents dating through December 1973 are found in the legacy paper-based filing
system arranged according to an alpha-numeric filing system, although there are some
pre-1974 documents among the P-Reel files.)


                                             2
Hardcopy documents too large for filming, usually publications or processed reports
sent as enclosures to incoming airgrams, were preserved in their original paper format.
Those records constitute the Oversize Enclosures ("Bulky Files").

2. In what formats are the CFPF records?

The records that now constitute the CFPF are in three different formats: electronic,
microfilm, and paper.

Electronic: (1) telegrams between the Department of State and Foreign Service posts
conveying official information about policy proposals and implementation, program
activities, or personnel and post operations; (2) index citations to records not
maintained electronically and now found on the P-Reel microfilm and among the
Oversize Enclosures; and (3) digital withdrawal cards created by both the Department
of State and NARA for classified or otherwise restricted telegrams and index citation
entries to microfilmed records where the citations themselves contain classified or
otherwise restricted information.

Microfilm: (1) D-Reel microfilm (computer-output microfilm of telegrams); (2) P-Reel
microfilm (microfilmed paper documents); and (3) N-Reel microfilm (computer-output
microfilm of NODIS [No Distribution] telegrams).

Paper: (1) oversized enclosures ("Bulky Files") and (2) telegrams originally classified as
Top Secret (TS) and/or Restricted Data/Formerly Restricted Data (RD/FRD)
documents. {During migration of the records from earlier platforms to the current
platform, Top Secret telegrams were printed out for preservation purposes and the
electronic versions were deleted. Those records now exist only in hardcopy form.}

Additionally, there are paper reference copies of the documents on the P-Reel microfilm
and the N-Reel microfilm for use by researchers, since
the film remains classified, and a webpage with links
to formerly classified or otherwise restricted telegrams
subsequently released.

3. What are TAGS?

Documents in the various parts of the CFPF are not
arranged by subject or office of origin. To categorize
documents for retrieval in ADS, the Department
developed the TAGS/Terms System, which is still in
use. "TAGS" stands for "Traffic Analysis by Geography
and Subject." There are geographic, organization, and
subject TAGS used to label documents. The system
requires that each document be labeled with
appropriate TAGS, including at least one Subject
TAGS. Supplementing the TAGS, indexers use specific
words or phrases ("Terms") to assist in refining
document searches.



                                               3
The TAGS/Terms System was not static and TAGS of each kind were added, revised, and
deleted as necessary over time, as were Terms. The Department periodically issued TAGS
handbooks for use by staff. They contain a description of all the TAGS in use at the time
of issuance as well as an explanation of the TAGS/Terms System. NARA has scanned the
handbooks and makes them available as part of the technical documentation for the
records. The handbooks can be viewed or downloaded online through AAD.

4. Are all the CFPF records preserved?

Not all records of Federal agencies are preserved in the National Archives. The
determination of which Federal records are transferred to the National Archives and
which records may be destroyed is carried out through the process of appraisal and
scheduling. This is a cooperative process involving both the creating agency and NARA
and leads to records being assigned a disposition of either permanent or temporary.
Permanent records are those that have sufficient historical or other value to warrant
preservation in the National Archives. Temporary records are those that do not
warrant preservation past the time they are needed by the creating agency for
administrative, legal, or fiscal purposes. Temporary records are ordinarily not
transferred to the National Archives.

To determine the archival value of the records, the National Archives and Records
Administration, in conjunction with the Department of State, carried out an appraisal of
the CFPF. It concluded that many of the records warranted preservation in their entirety
but that the telegraphic communications exchanged by the Department of State and
Foreign Service Posts included a significant volume of ephemeral documents as well as
other documents that do not warrant preservation in the National Archives. In order to
eliminate the significant volume of electronic telegrams without long-term value, NARA
and the Department developed a records disposition schedule using the Subject TAGS as
the basis for determining the value of the electronic telegrams and segregating the
permanent records from the temporary records. As a result of that appraisal, certain
Subjects TAGS were designated as temporary and electronic telegrams bearing only
temporary Subject TAGS are approved for destruction and are not transferred to the
National Archives. Appendix II is a list of the temporary Subject TAGS for the period
1973-1979. The temporary telegrams that have been eliminated are not represented by
withdrawal cards. All other Subject TAGS are designated as permanent. Since the
retention of an individual document is determined by the Subject TAGS with the longest
retention, only the telegrams with only temporary Subject TAGS are destroyed.

5. What records are designated as permanent?

All records on the P-Reels and N-Reels are designated as permanent, as are all the
Oversize Enclosures, and all the Top Secret telegrams. Electronic telegrams with other
than only temporary subject TAGS are permanent. This includes all telegrams with
Subject TAGS covering Economic Affairs, Military and Defense Affairs, Political Affairs,
Social Affairs, and Technology and Science and telegrams with selected Subject TAGS
dealing with Administration, Business Services, Consular Affairs, and Operations.
Appendix I is a list of the permanent Subject TAGS for the period 1973-1979.

The permanent records are found in the following record elements:



                                             4
(1) Electronic telegrams designated as permanent, beginning 1973 (see note below);
(2) D-Reel Microfilm, beginning 1973 (preserved as a backup);
(3) Electronic Index to the P-Reel Microfilm, beginning 1974 but with some data
       going back to 1973;
(4) P-Reel Microfilm, beginning 1974 (with non-record paper printouts for researcher
       use);
(5) N-Reel Microfilm, beginning 1975 (with non-record paper printouts for researcher
       use);
(6) Oversize Enclosures (hardcopy);
(7) Top Secret Telegrams (hardcopy).

NOTE: Formerly classified or otherwise restricted telegrams subsequently released are
found through the "State Archiving System (SAS)" webpage located at:
https://www.archives.gov/research/foreign-policy/state-dept/rg-59-central-files/1973-1979.html.

6. What records are designated as temporary?

Electronic telegrams bearing only temporary Subject TAGS are approved for
destruction. In the case of a telegram with multiple Subject TAGS, it is considered
temporary only if all the Subject TAGS applied to the message are designated as
temporary. Appendix II is a list of the temporary Subject TAGS for the period 1973-
1979.

7. Which records have been accessioned by the National Archives?

Records are transferred to the National Archives on a continuing basis. Once
transferred, they are processed in order to make them available to the public. The
chart found in Appendix III provides a convenient summary of the various public-use
elements of the 1973-1979 Central Foreign Policy File, their accessioning status, and
their availability to researchers.

AAD contains the fully-releasable 1973-1979 permanent electronic telegrams, the
fully-releasable P-Reel index references to microfilmed documents dated through
December 31, 1979, and the related withdrawal notices for telegrams and index
references not fully-releasable (withdrawal cards).

8. How can I locate documents in the P-Reel printout files?

Because of the way the documents on the P-Reel microfilm were filmed, the only way
to locate documents of interest is through the use of the electronic P-Reel Index. The
index files provide citations to the hard copy documents that the Department of State
microfilmed and indexed as part of the CFPF. See illustration. It covers those
documents not coded as telegrams (TE) in the type field that are now preserved on the
P-Reel microfilm. Citations to the telegrams on the P-Reels and the N-Reels are found
in the telegram files, not in the P-Reel index.

The P-Reel documents are numbered with a prefix that identifies the year in which the
referenced documents were microfilmed not the year in which the documents were
written. Because different offices retained documents for varying lengths of time, the
P-Reels frequently contain documents dated earlier than the year in which the


                                                    5
documents were filmed. For
example, a reel microfilmed in
1976 will consist primarily of
documents created that year,
but may also include
documents created in preceding
years. In such cases, the earlier
documents will be declassified
and transferred to NARA with
the documents microfilmed in
the later year. The citation of a
P-Reel document also includes
the frame number of the first
page. For example, a citation
that reads "P750066-0259"
indicates that the document can
be found on roll 66 of the
records microfilmed in 1975
beginning at frame 259.

P-Reel Index files that are
available online through the Access to Archival Databases (AAD) resource and copies
of the monthly files are also available for a cost-recovery fee on removable media. The
documents to which those citations refer are not available online.

9. How can I determine if a full electronic telegram or P-Reel citation is being
withheld from viewing?

Electronic telegrams and P-Reel citations that have been withdrawn due to the presence of
security classified information or for other reasons are represented by the withdrawal
"cards" that are found in separate files from the main body of records. See illustration.
The Department of State created electronic withdrawal cards for telegrams and P-Reel
index entries exempt from disclosure for reasons of national security, privacy, and other
statutory concerns. NARA created additional electronic withdrawal cards for additional
telegrams and P-Reel
index references that
require review under the
Freedom of Information
Act due to the presence
of otherwise restricted
information such as that
affecting privacy.
Withdrawal of a P-Reel
Index entry is based upon the information found in that entry and does not relate directly
to the release status of the referenced document. The microfilmed document may not be
declassified and released even if the index entry is declassified.

10. Are all 1973-1979 State Telegrams in the AAD?

The Department of State electronic telegrams on AAD consist of only the fully


                                             6
releasable 1973-1979 telegrams determined to have permanent historical value that
could be exported from the contemporary Department of State recordkeeping system.
Thus, AAD does not contain records appraised as temporary nor does it include
records that remain security classified or otherwise restricted. In addition, as
explained below, the text of some of the electronic telegrams was lost during data
migration.

The Department of State was a pioneer in the use of a database system to preserve
large complicated text files and there have been problems with the data in the telegram
database. Over the years, computer obsolescence required migration of the database
to new hardware and software platforms. During migration, some data was lost
despite the Department’s best efforts to protect and recover each telegram. Typically,
the damage resulted in telegrams containing a phrase such as “ERROR READING
TEXT” or "EXPAND ERROR ENCOUNTERED" instead of the content of the telegram in
the message text field. See illustration. In some cases, the telegram may not even
contain a message
text field. In those
telegrams with lost
messages, the
"locator" field may
contain a phrase
such as "ADS TEXT NOT CONVERTED" or "ADS TEXT UNRETRIEVABLE" and may
indicate if the text was captured on microfilm. In addition, some telegrams were
intentionally deleted from the electronic repository. The number of lost messages
appears to be relatively small, except:
        -most of the message texts from December 1-15, 1975 are missing;
        -most of the message texts from March 18-31, 1976 are missing;
        -many of the message texts from April 1-2, 1976 are missing;
        -most of the message texts from May 25-31, 1976 are missing;
        -about 92% of the message texts from June 1976 are missing; and
        -most of the message texts from July 1, 1976 are missing.

11. Can any of the lost
telegram texts be
recovered?

Some of the lost message
texts appear on the
computer output microfilm
of the telegrams prepared as
the database was created,
(D-Reel microfilm), the
microfilm of NODIS
messages (N-Reel microfilm),
or on the P-Reel microfilm.
To determine if a given
telegram is on microfilm,
check the “Message
Attributes” page of the on-
line telegram in AAD to see


                                            7
if the “Film Number” field includes a citation. If that field reads “n/a,” then the message
does not appear on any CFPF microfilm and the text cannot be recovered. If, however,
that field consists of a number beginning with D73, D74, D75, D76, D77, D78, D79, P74,
P75, P76, P77, P78, P79, N75, N76, N77, N78, or N79, the text should be on the CFPF
microfilm in NARA’s custody.

Telegrams with missing text that have been requested and released are found through the
"Released Telegrams (Access Demand)" section of the "State Archiving System (SAS)"
webpage. If the telegram in which you are interested is not found there, the classification
level found in the “Original Classification” field will determine the course of action. If that
field reads “confidential” or “secret” submit a Freedom of Information Act request to
NARA’s Special Access and FOIA Staff at <specialaccess_foia@nara.gov>. If that field reads
“unclassified” or “limited official use” send a standard reference request to the Archives II
Reference Section at <archives2reference@nara.gov> to request a copy. Please limit each
type of request to telegrams on no more than five rolls of film (i.e. - have the same basic
roll number, such as “D750123”). If you wish to ask for telegrams from more than five
rolls, please wait until you have received the response to one request of each type (i.e.
FOIA or standard) before submitting the next.

If the film number begins with D80, P80, or N80 or higher, you must submit a Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA) request directly to the Department of State to request a copy.

All requests should identify the document with the message reference number (MRN), the
relevant microfilm citation, and the original classification level indicated in the Message
Attributes.

12. How do I cite records from the Central Foreign Policy Files, beginning with
records for 1973?

The NARA publication “Citing Records in the National Archives of the United States”
General Information Leaflet
Number 17 provides information
on citing records. NARA
recommends that citations include
the series title "Central Foreign
Policy Files, 1973-1979", an
indication of the subset of that
series (i.e. “Electronic Telegrams”
or “P-Reel Printouts,” etc.), and the
record group title "Record Group
59, General Records of the
Department of State" with
additional information as noted
below:

(1) citations to individual
telegrams reviewed online should
include identifying information
such as date, to, from and the
Document Number (also known as


                                              8
the Message Reference Number [MRN]) as found in the message attributes. The MRN can
be found on every telegram. See illustration. For example, "1977MOSCOW02124"
indicates the 2124th telegram sent by the U.S. embassy in Moscow in 1977, while a
telegram with the citation "1975STATE095768" is the 95768th telegram sent from the
Department of State in 1975. Using this number, researchers will be able to retrieve all
available sections of multi-section telegrams and all available versions of retransmitted
telegrams. The citation should also include a note in brackets containing the date on
which the records were retrieved online via the Access to Archival Databases (AAD);

(2) citations to individual telegrams from the D-Reel microfilm or the N-Reel microfilm
should include identifying information such as date, to, from, the Document Numbers,
and the Film Number, which can be found on the document;

(3) citations to documents from the P-Reel printouts should indicate the type of document
(airgram, letter, memorandum, report) and other identifying information such as date,
from, to, the document number (where appropriate), and the Film Number.

The following are some model notes:

A. Electronic telegrams:

Embassy Manila to Department of State, Telegram 07657, June 27, 1974,
1974MANILA07657, Central Foreign Policy Files, 1973-79/Electronic Telegrams, RG 59:
General Records of the Department of State, National Archives (accessed May 1, 2014).

B. Telegram from D-Reels:

Embassy Manila to Department of State, Telegram 07657, June 27, 1974, D740169-1020,
Central Foreign Policy Files, 1973-79/D-Reel Microfilm, RG 59: General Records of the
Department of State, National Archives.

C. P-Reel Printouts:

1. Memorandum of Conversation, “Secretary’s London Speech; ECPC; US-French
Relations; European Unification,” July 1, 1976, P760126-0934, Central Foreign Policy
Files, 1973-79/P-Reel Printouts, RG 59: General Records of the Department of State,
National Archives.

2. Embassy Cairo to Department of State, Airgram A-150, August 9, 1976, P760129-0386,
Central Foreign Policy Files, 1973-79/P-Reel Printouts, RG 59: General Records of the
Department of State, National Archives.

13. Where can I get more information about the Central Foreign Policy File?

Questions about the organization and content of the records and their relationship to
other records of the Department of State should be addressed to the Archives II
Reference Branch (RDT2) at: The National Archives at College Park, 8601 Adelphi
Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or by email at <archives2reference@nara.gov>.

Questions about the electronic records and the use of AAD should be addressed to


                                             9
Reference Branch, Electronic Records Division (RDER) via email to <cer@nara.gov>, or
telephone, 301-837-0470, or by surface mail to the address noted above.
II. Questions about using the Access to Archival Databases (AAD) resource to access
the digital records of the Department of State Central Foreign Policy File

1. What kinds of searches can be conducted on the digital records?

As found in AAD, records can be retrieved in many ways. All of the different fields
found in the "Message Attributes" can be used for fielded searching. The AAD fielded
search pages for the electronic CFPF records include a pre-selection of the most
commonly used fields. Researchers, however, can establish their own search
parameters using any or a combination of the fields by clicking on the “show more
fields” option on the fielded-search page. In addition, the entire text of the electronic
telegrams can be searched for key words, phrases, or names.

For example, researchers can search for telegrams and citations to P-Reel documents
with specific standard Subject, Country, and/or Organization TAGS by selecting from
the code table for the TAGS field on the fielded search page. Another approach would
be to use the "Draft Date," "From," and "To," fields to locate all telegrams and citations
to hardcopy documents such as airgrams on the P-Reel microfilm in a file, sent to and
from a given post for a given period. Using the "Document Number" field, researchers
can locate specific documents within a file, such as telegrams referenced in reports
and memorandums.

Please note that in order to locate all documents of interest using the AAD fielded
search option, you must search each of the separate electronic files separately. You
can search across all electronic CFPF files in AAD by using the free-text search option
from the AAD series description page for the CFPF or the Diplomatic Records series list
page. For example, with the free-text search option, you can search for keywords,
phrases, senders and recipients, dates, and document numbers. For more
information, see the AAD Getting Started Guide, accessible from the AAD homepage.

2. How do I search for records on the basis of dates?

There are many date fields in the message attributes of the electronic telegram and P-
Reel index files, as well as dates within the texts of telegrams. To allow efficient
searching in AAD on the basis of dates, most of the date attributes fields are formatted
as DATE data types. This means that if you use the fielded search option to search for
a date in a date attributes field, you should enter the date in the search box for that
field using the format <mm/dd/yyyy>. Please refer to the Field Notes for a specific date
field for more details on how to search that field. If, however, you want to use the free-
text search option to search for a date in the message texts, you should enter the date
in the free-text search box by using the format <yyyymmdd>. With either type of
search, when retrieved records are displayed as either partial or full records, the dates
will appear as they are stored in the raw data. Usually the raw data for date fields
include both alpha characters and numbers, as in <18 SEP 1974>. A free-text search
using the alphabetic characters for a month will only find records where those
characters are literally within the message text or a non-date field. Those searches will
not return records that have these alphabetic characters for a month in a date field.



                                              10
3. How can I view the full text of the electronic telegrams I find?

The initial results of your AAD search are shown on the “Display Partial Records” page.
The fields that were on your search page will display with the data that is stored in
them in the raw data record. Other field(s) with the term(s) or phrase(s) you used in a
free-text search may also display. While the “message text” field is a default search
field for the files of telegrams and will be included on “Display Partial Records” pages,
unless you remove it from the search page, only a part of the “message text” displays.
See illustration. To view the entire message text, and all of the message attributes for
a record, click on the icon in the
“View Record” column in the row
with the record of interest to you.
Since the full record is in a PDF
format, you will need Adobe
Acrobat Reader in order to view the
document. As noted above, the text
of some messages may be missing.

4. Can I download my search
results?

You cannot download the full set of
records that your search inquiry
retrieves. You can, however,
download or print each record
separately. From the "Display
Partial Records" page, click on the
icon in the "View Record" column
of the partial record of interest to
you; once the full record displays
you can print it or save it to your
computer. Full electronic records
retrieved from Central Foreign
Policy Files through AAD are
displayed as PDF documents. If
you are interested in ordering
copies of any of the raw data files
that are included in AAD, please
contact Reference Branch,
Electronic Records Division
(RDER), via email to
<cer@nara.gov>, or by telephone,
301-837-0470.

5. Does AAD search for the meanings of coded values in the Central Foreign
Policy Files?




                                             11
When using the fielded search option for a field with a code table, AAD searches by
codes, not the meanings of coded values. For example, if you want to search for any
telegrams to or from a country, or about a country, and you use the name of the
country in the free-text search box, AAD will retrieve the records where the country
name literally appears at some place in the record. If the only place the country is
identified in a record is in a geographic TAGS in the TAGS field, AAD will find the
records only if you run a fielded search using the TAGS field with the appropriate code
for the country name, as found in the Code List for the TAGS field. Therefore, using
the TAGS field and the fielded search option can be an efficient way to search for
records when the geographic location, organization, or subject of your search is
identified in the TAGS Code List.

6. Can I view sample values for fields in these electronic files?

At the present time, AAD does not display any sample values for any of the fields in the
electronic files of the Central Foreign Policy Files.

7. May I obtain copies of the electronic files available via AAD?

Copies of released electronic monthly files are also available on removable media on a
cost-recovery basis. For information, please contact Reference Branch, Electronic
Records Division (RDER) by telephone at 301-837-0470 or by email at <cer@nara.gov>.


III. Questions about obtaining records from the Department of State Central
Foreign Policy File that are not accessible through AAD

1. What CFPF records are not accessible through AAD?

The following categories of records are not accessible through AAD: (1) paper reference
copies of documents referred to in the P-Reel Indexes; (2) the oversize ("Bulky")
enclosures; (3) declassified Top Secret telegrams; (4) paper reference copies of NODIS
telegrams printed from the N-Reel microfilm; (5) electronic telegrams and full P-Reel
index entries that contain security classified information or are otherwise restricted
from public use; (6) temporary telegrams not preserved in the National Archives; and
(7) the Released Telegrams (Access Demand) webpage.

2. How do I get access to the telegrams or P-Reel index entries referenced by
withdrawal cards?

Researchers interested in a telegram or a P-Reel index entry referenced by a
withdrawal "card" must submit a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request to NARA’s
Special Access and FOIA Staff. For more information about submitting a FOIA
request, please see the NARA FOIA Reference Guide online at:
http://www.archives.gov/foia/foia-guide.html. Please include the document number,
document date, and the “to” and “from” citation for each document in your request.

Formerly classified or otherwise restricted telegrams subsequently released are found
through the "Released Telegrams (Access Demand)" section of the "State Archiving
System (SAS)" webpage. Before submitting a FOIA or MDR request, be sure to check


                                            12
that resource to determine if the telegram in which you are interested has already been
released.

As noted above, not all documents cited in the declassified P-Reel Index are open and
available for public use. In some cases, a document cited in a declassified index
citation may itself remain security classified or be otherwise restricted from public
access.

3. How do I get access to paper documents referenced by the P-Reel indexes?

Paper documents referenced in the P-Reel indexes which have a prefix of P74, P75,
P76, P77, P78, or P79 are at the National Archives in College Park, Maryland. The
P76, P77, P78, and P79 records are declassified but require screening for otherwise-
restricted information before researchers can use them. That screening will take place
as researchers request the records. P-Reel documents with prefixes of P80 and later
remain in the custody of the Department of State. For more information on availability
of P74, P75, P76, P77, P78, and P79 documents, researchers should contact the
Archives II Reference Branch (RDT2) at: The National Archives at College Park, 8601
Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or by email at the email address noted
above. To request access to P-Reel documents with prefixes of P80 and later,
researchers must submit a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request directly to the
Department of State. Please include the microfilm roll and frame numbers in any
request for specific documents.

November 28, 2018 Revised
September 2020 Revised




                                            13
Appendix I: Permanent Subject TAGS, 1973 - 1979

Subject
             Field               Title
TAGS
ACLM         Administration      Claims Against the U.S. Government
ACMM         Administration      Committees
AEMR         Administration      Emergency Planning and Evacuation
AGAO         Administration      General Accounting Office
AINF         Administration      Information Management Services
AINR         Administration      INR Program Administration
ALTR         Administration      Newsletter
AMGT         Administration      Management Operations
AODE         Administration      Employees Abroad
AORG         Administration      International Organization
                                 Administration
ASEC         Administration      Security
ASIG         Administration      Inspector General Activities
BAGB         Business Services   Agribusiness
BBAK         Business Services   Background on Firms, Products, and
                                 Individuals
BBCP         Business Services   Business Consultation Program
BBSR         Business Services   Business Services Reporting
BDIS         Business Services   Trade Complaints and Disputes
BENC         Business Services   Engineering and Construction Services
BEXP         Business Services   Trade Expansion and Promotion
BFOL         Business Services   Follow-up Request
BGEN         Business Services   Business Services - General
BPRO         Business Services   Business Proposals and Inquiries
BTIO         Business Services   Trade and Investment Opportunities
BTRA         Business Services   Travel by U.S. and Foreign Businessmen
CARR         Consular Affairs    Americans Arrested Abroad
CASC         Consular Affairs    Assistance to Citizens
CDES         Consular Affairs     Deaths and Estates
CFED         Consular Affairs    Federal Agency Services
CGEN         Consular Affairs    Consular Affairs - General
CPRS         Consular Affairs    Property Protection Services
E***         Economic Affairs    All Subject TAGS in the “E” field are
                                 permanent. See the on-line handbooks
                                 for details.
M***         Military and        All Subject TAGS in the “M” field are
             Defense Affairs     permanent. See the on-line handbooks



                                         14
                           for details.


OCLR   Operations          Military Vessel and Flight Clearances
                           and Visits
OCON   Operations          Conferences and Meetings
OGEN   Operations          Operations - General
OREP   Operations          U.S. Congressional Travel
OVIP   Operations          Visits and Travel of Prominent
                           Individuals and Leaders
P***   Political Affairs   All Subject TAGS in the "P" field are
                           permanent. See the on-line handbooks
                           for details.
S***   Social Affairs      All Subject TAGS in the "S" field are
                           permanent. See the on-line handbooks
                           for details.
T***   Technology and      All Subject TAGS in the "T" field are
       Science             permanent. See the on-line handbooks
                           for details.




                                  15
Appendix II: Temporary Subject TAGS, 1973-1979

Records on matters covered by the Subject TAGS designated as temporary may be
preserved among the Department’s decentralized files that are designated as permanent.

Subject
               Field                Title
TAGS
AART           Administration       Art-in-Embassies Program
AAUD           Administration       Audits
ABLD           Administration       Buildings
ABUD           Administration       Budget Services and Financial Systems
ACOM           Administration       Departmental Communications
ACMS           Administration       COMSEC Material
ACOU           Administration       Courier Operations
ADTO           Administration       Domestic Telecommunications Operations
                                    Commo & Records Unit/Combined Commo
AFAC           Administration
                                    Centers (CRU/CCC)
AFIN           Administration       Financial Services
                                    Foreign Service Post COM Center
AFOP           Administration
                                    Operations & Administration
AFSI           Administration       Foreign Service Institute
AFSP           Administration       Post Administration
ALIB           Administration       Library Services
ALOW           Administration       Allowances
AMED           Administration       Medical Services
                                    Telecommunications Equipment
AMTC           Administration
                                    Maintenance
ANET           Administration       Communications, circuits, and Networks
APER           Administration       Personnel
APOU           Administration       Mail and Pouch
APUB           Administration       Publishing, Printing, Distribution, and
                                    Library Services
AREC           Administration       Commissary and Recreation
AREG           Administration       Regulations and Directives
ASAF           Administration       Safety
ASCH           Administration       Overseas Schools
ASUP           Administration       Supplies and Equipment
ATRN           Administration       Transportation
                                    Foreign Service Post Voice
AVCE           Administration
                                    Communications Facility
AWRD           Administration       Awards



                                            16
BLIB   Business Services   Commercial Libraries
BPUB   Business Services   Business-Commercial Publications and
                           Libraries
CPAS   Consular Affairs    Passports and Citizenship
CVIS   Consular Affairs     Visas
OEXC   Operations          Educational and Cultural Exchange
                           Operations
OSCI   Operations          Science Grants
OTRA   Operations          Travel and Visits




                                 17
Appendix III: Summary of records in the National Archives

This chart found summarizes of the various public-use elements of the 1973-1979
Central Foreign Policy File that have been accessioned and their availability to
researchers.

                                       1973 1974       1975 1976 1977 1978       1979
Declassified Electronic Telegrams      A/D A/D         A/D A/D A/D A/D           A/D
Electronic Telegram Withdrawal         A/D A/D         A/D A/D A/D A/D           A/D
Notices
Declassified Electronic P-Reel Index             A/D   A/D   A/D   A/D    A/D    A/D
Entries
P-Reel Withdrawal Notices                        A/D   A/D   A/D   A/D    A/D    A/D
P-Reel Printouts                                 A/D   A/D   A/D   A/D    A/D    A
N-Reel Printouts                                       A/D   A     A      A      A
Top Secret Telegrams                             A     A/D   A     A      A      A
Oversize Enclosures                              A/D   A/D   A/D   A      A      A

Key:
A = Accessioned
D = Declassified and available for public use
X = Not yet legally transferred

Explanation:
A category marked "A" has been accessioned, but has yet to undergo declassification
processing or be reviewed for otherwise restricted information. Access is only through a
FOIA request to the National Archives.

A category marked "A/D" has been accessioned and open to public use, except for those
documents withdrawn because they contain classified or otherwise restricted information.

A category marked "T" has been physically transferred to the National Archives and is
undergoing technical and archival processing before accessioning. Access to the finding
aid is through a FOIA request to the Department of State.




                                                18
